Title: U.S. Stocks Fall as Investors Worry About China Tensions
Date: 1 hour ago (Aug 02, 2022 09:45AM ET)


By Liz Moyer

Investing.com -- U.S. stocks traded lower early Tuesday as investors worried about rising tensions between the U.S. and China.

At 10:16 AM ET, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was down 300 points, or 0.9%, while the S&P 500 was down 0.6% and the NASDAQ Composite fell 0.5%.

House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s trip to Taiwan is helping to raise tensions. Shares of chipmakers, which have exposure to the China market, dipped in premarket trading in the U.S. as Pelosi and her delegation prepared to pay a visit to Taiwan as part of a multinational trip. She is the first Speaker to visit the island since Newt Gingrich in the late 1990s.

Meanwhile, corporate earnings continued to pour in. Late Monday,  Pinterest Inc  (NYSE:PINS) got a huge boost when activist Elliott Management confirmed it was the social media company’s biggest shareholder. Pinterest stock jumped more than 20% after-hours on Monday and was up 13% on Tuesday.

Ride-hailing firm  Uber Technologies Inc  (NYSE:UBER) shares rose 14% after it reported $8 billion in revenue and said bookings were up 33% in the recent quarter. It had positive cash flow and attributed its loss for the quarter to investments in other companies.

 Caterpillar  Inc (NYSE:CAT) shares fell 3.7% after the construction equipment maker reported trouble with supply chains and said the suspension of operations in Russia helped it miss expectations.

The government’s data on job openings showed 10.7 million, while analysts expected 11 million openings. June's reading was the lowest since last September as the job market cooled.

Oil rose. Crude Oil WTI Futures was up nearly 1%, to $94.67 a barrel, while Brent Oil Futures rose 0.7%, to $100.77 a barrel. Gold Futures was up 0.5%, to $1,797 an ounce.

We encourage you to use comments to engage with other users, share your perspective and ask questions of authors and each other. However, in order to maintain the high level of discourse we’ve all come to value and expect, please keep the following criteria in mind:  

           Enrich the conversation, don’t trash it.

          Stay focused and on track. Only post material that’s relevant to the topic being discussed. 

          Be respectful. Even negative opinions can be framed positively and diplomatically. Avoid profanity, slander or personal attacks directed at an author or another user. Racism, sexism and other forms of discrimination will not be tolerated.

Perpetrators of spam or abuse will be deleted from the site and prohibited from future registration at Investing.com’s discretion.

